Monthly Reporting
=================

Each month, the treasurer is expected to present the board with a summary report of our financial position. This report should include:

    * reconciliation summary of our TD banking account (showing opening and closing balances)
    * reconciliation summary of our PayPal account (showing opening and closing balances)
    * Income & Expense report, summarizing the month's transactions
    * Balance Sheet, showing the closing balances of all accounts and subaccounts
    * AR Aging summary, showing how many active members are 0-30, 31-60, 61-90 days behind in dues
    * a list of all payments (cheques) made during the month
    
With the exception of the AR aging summary (which Quickbooks is unable to generate without names), these reports should be generated by Quickbooks rather than by hand. A short-cut to each of these reports can be found under "Reports >> Memorized Reports >> Monthly Reports". Email the full report to the members list, before presenting it to the board, and include some summary comments describing our performance for the month. For instance, you can comment on how many members were invoiced (and whether that's changed since the previous month), whether or not we received any donation money during the month, and highlight the sorts of spending we did. Commentary should be provided in lay terms -- the goal is to make sure the membership understands our financial position. 

A paper copy of this report should be printed off, and filed with account statements, invoices, and any other financial records for the month. Bring all paper records to the board meeting, when presenting the monthly report, so that any questions can be quickly answered. 






* Record any outstanding transactions from the month (these may already be done -- verify they are!)
    + receive & record any payments
    + record any bills
    + record any bill payments 
    + record any reimbursement requests
    + record Warden operating fund allocations
* Download TD bank statement and reconcile account
* Download Paypal statement and reconcile account
* Generate Monthly reports from Quickbooks (and review that nothing looks unexpected)
    + Income & Expense for previous month 
    + Balance Sheet for previous month
    + Cheque detail for previous month
    + AR Aging for current day
* Sanitize AR Aging
* Create Monthly Financial Report. Create a PDF with the following
    + Income & Expense 
    + Balance Sheet
    + TD Reconciliation Summary
    + PayPayl Reconciliation Summary
    + Sanitized AR Aging 
    + Cheque Detail
* Email Monthly Financial PDF, with an email summarizing the report
    + how many members were invoiced for dues that month
    + any donations or other money received
    + calculate operating net (different from total net)
    + point out any exceptional operational spending
    + summarize discretionary spending
* Print off 
    + Email message from above
    + Monthly Financial PDF
    + Full Paypal statement
    + Full TD statement (or add paper copy which comes in the mail, after it arrives)
    + any bills paid 
    + any reimbursement requests paid
* Review Cheque Detail report, making sure you have supporting paperwork for every cheque listed. 
* Combine all of the above with a binder clip, and file in the binder box. Bring it to the board meeting, in case anybody wants to look at it, or there are any questions.